# Stock Market Prediction using News Sentiment Analysis
We are doing a comparative study of different advanced machine-learning models of Random Forest classifiers, Support Vector Machines and Sequential Model based on BiLSTM architecture for analysis of the sentiment-features of the news. This comparative study involves training and evaluating each machine learning model using sentiment features of the news. Firstly, we will perform the data preprocessing. Data preprocessing is an important part in NLP models because textual data contains lot of noise. These preprocessing techniques include removing irrelevant information, special characters, and converting text to lowercase. Tokenize the text into words or subword units for further analysis. After we receive the token words we vectorize them to feed into different models. Various vectorizing models are CountVectorizer from sklearn, text_to_sequence from tensorflow in Python, etc. For real-time testing, we will web scrape news from multiple sources like Yahoo Finance, and Money Control. These news articles are then again preprocessed using the same algorithms (Removing irrelevant information, and special characters, and converting text to lowercase. Tokenize the text into words or subword units for further analysis). Then these tokens are vectorized using the same vectorizing model as used for the training dataset. Then we will feed the vectorized data into the model for prediction. If the news sentiments are positive, then maybe the stock prices will increase, whereas if the news is negative, then the stock prices may decrease. 
